Hello.
Welcome back to the advanced course and our programming in this tutorial we've got another challenge
ahead of us and we're talking about machine equalisation.
Let's have a look at the project brief.
All right so you have been engaged as a data scientist consultant by a coal terminal.
They would like to invest in one of their heavy machines which is called Our old one.
You have been supplied with a one month worth of data for all of their machines.
The data says shows what percentage of capacity for each machine was idle or unused in any given hour
.
You're required to deliver an R list with the following components.
A character with the machine name a vector of the minimum mean and maximum utilizations a logical telling
us whether utilization has ever fallen Bunol 90 percent a vector which contains all ours where utilization
is unknown a doorframe.
So a subset of GOODFRIEND front of the specific machine and a plot for all the machines.
Now I know we haven't talked about lists yet at all but at the same time it's just important for us
to have these components listed so we know what we are working towards and basically think of it this
way that by the end of this section will have some sort of daughter object or data structure that will
contain all this information within itself and that will be all lists.
And of course throughout the sexual We will learn much better and in much more detail what exactly lists
are and how it is structured.
But for now we've got this challenge ahead of us and we're going to start solving it as soon as we dive
into the section.
And now let's proceed to the data set.
Let's go and see where we can get this data set.
So to get the data set as usual we need to go to w w w dot superdad assigns dot com slash are of course
one word hyphen advanced.
And if you scroll down here to Section Three lists and you'll see the challenge which we just looked
at and the machine utilization data set.
So go ahead and download that and we'll investigate it.
Now a little bit in a bit more detail.
So here we've got three columns and a lot of rows so we've got like 3600 rows I think in total in this
data set.
And why is that.
Well it's because we've got quite a few machines here you've got the machine name and the second column
.
So these are all one the one we're going to be investing in is our old two and so on.
And at the same time for every machine you've got a record for every single hour of that month which
it looks like September 2016.
So you've got a new record for every hour in that month and that's where so many records come from.
So that's important the machine name.
Then of course the time stamp is important.
And we're going to learn how to deal with these as well.
And then percent idle actually tells us what percentage of capacity was unused for that machine.
So for instance this machine could have done 100 percent let's say in that hour.
It could have done X amount of work and that would take x' 100 percent.
3 percent of X was unused it could have done it only did 97 percent of what it could have done in that
hour.
That's what this means and we're going to be analyzing that.
So there we go that's a data set.
And that's really it's you can now proceed with this section.
But what I did want to do is I'm going to throw in a little bonus now.
All right.
So at the end of this video I'm going to add in the video that I had for this Dardus is not exactly
this data set but very similar data set so the grandfather of this data said in a different course in
a course called Advanced Tablo which I also run.
And there I explained the background of the data set.
So there I talk about what coal mining is and what this coal terminal does why it's so important for
them to look at utilization how we can apply data science to measure these incredible things that we
don't even understand like.
And there's lots of photos lots of pictures in their presentation.
I'm sure you'll love it so if you haven't done that tabloid ones of course yet then definitely stick
around and have a look at their presentation.
Just make sure to ignore the challenge itself so ignore the challenge in that presentation.
You're going to see just now because we have our own challenge.
Our challenge is kind of a spin off from that challenge but do pay attention to the domain knowledge
that you'll be acquiring through our presentation.
I'm sure gonna have lots of fun and I will see you on the next Tauriel.
Until then happy coding.
Enjoy.
All right.
Section 3 lezzy into the challenge.
Are you excited about this.
I'm super excited.
Ok coal mining.
Let's start with this question.
What are the odds that you are an expert in coal mining.
I would say probably 0.1 percent.
No actually I would say zero point zero or 1 percent.
That's the chance that you're an expert coalmining.
And yet in this whole section throughout the section we're going to be talking a lot about coal mining
and we will be leveraging specific knowledge about coal mining.
So what that'll show you is how important domain knowledge is in the work of a data scientist or a Tablo
analyst.
More importantly what you will see in this tutorial is how quickly we as not a scientists can develop
this domain knowledge to help us in our engagements.
And that combined with your unique Datto skills will allow you to deliver incredible projects for virtually
any industry.
All right let's jump straight into it.
So here's the challenge.
And there's lots of techs here but we'll skip all of it.
The first thing that jumps out at you is of course millions of dollars and makes it exciting but we'll
skip it for now because there is a lot of information here which we just cannot digest We don't have
the domain knowledge to understand exactly what is being said and what has been required of us.
And also we're going to skip this page as well.
Let's jump into acquiring this domain knowledge and you'll see how quickly you can develop it.
All right.
So here's a short clip and as you have already gathered I am assuming you have already gathered.
I'm from Australia I'm from Brisbane.
This is where I'm sitting right now as I'm recording this video.
And here is the Bowen Basin.
It's highlighted in red.
The Bowen Basin is one of the biggest coal mining basins in the world.
It's got lots of different types of coal and Australian mines that and exports lots of it to other countries
.
Now this is what a bone base in coal mine looks like.
Now there's like I said there's lots of different types of coal and the whole concept is that it is
mind by different companies and then it's put onto trains which look like this.
And in this coal is sent off and these trains they can be huge they can be up to several kilometres
in length and they can carry all the way up to 10 or even 12 a thousand tons of coal in a one train
.
It's an incredible amount.
And they're moving at very high speeds and they're going and where are they going where are these trains
going.
Well they're going towards the ocean they're going towards the coast to get into a coal terminal and
then so that the coal will be loaded onto ships and it'll be shipped off to the purchaser of that call
.
So where are these terminals located now in the circle here you can see one of the or several of the
coal terminals that are highlighted now in this section.
We're going to be pretending and I stress we're pretending that we are working for a coal terminal called
the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal.
And why I say pretending is because everything that we're doing is based on fake Dadda fake concepts
.
It's all made up just for specifically for our analytics training purposes.
This is just a an example of has nothing to do of the real life and hence there's a disclaimer here
at the bottom.
This is a mock up assignment used exclusively for analytics training purposes all door used for this
analysis is fake.
There is no affiliation with DBC.
So just so we're on the same page.
This is not real data.
We're doing this just for training purposes.
All right so the coal from the bone Basin which is over here is outlined in the square.
It all well a lot of it goes to this DBC Dalrymple Bay coal terminal which Lakotah here near Makai.
And I actually wasn't Mikhail's doing an engagement for a big client there of course it was a different
client but I have been there and I've seen the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and this is what it looks
like.
So this is the view you get when you're flying in a play from Brisbane to Makai or back.
Magnificent view isn't it.
And so this is the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and this is where the trains pull up.
Well in fact they don't actually pull up.
They're still moving.
And while they're moving they're being unloaded over here and the coal goes down these conveyor belts
to the stockyard over here whereas it's stockpiled.
And then after that it is sent down more conveyor belts all the way to the jetty where it is loaded
onto ships and then the ships go back to the person of the call.
Now don't confuse there's another stockyard over here but this stockyard belongs to a different coal
terminal so this coal terminal here is called the hay point coal terminal and it belongs to BMA and
BMA stands for BHP Billiton Mitsubishi alliance so those two companies built their own coal terminal
as you can see they've got their own carrousel here with the trains unload the coal and then it's a
stockyard and they've got a GED over here as well.
We're going to be pretending that we're working with that Dalrymple Bay coal terminal not the Hi-Point
coal terminal.
All right.
So what else do we have here.
This is how the coal terminal operates.
So trains come in they're unloaded and coal goes down the conveyor belt and into the stockyard where
these machines as you can see here they stockpile them.
And how did they start Paula.
Well this is how they stockpiled them.
Another real image from the BCT terminal.
And what you can see here is lots and lots of coal that has been stockpiled into these pyramids.
And why do the machines into the coal.
The question is why can't the coal just be sent directly to the Jedi.
So let's go back one slide.
Sometimes the coal can be sent directly to just so you can see that the conveyor belts can go around
the machines and can go off straight to the jetty to the ships.
But there are two issues.
First of all maybe the ship the right ship isn't there maybe the right ship hasn't arrived yet.
And the Cole shouldn't be at the jetty yet.
There is a different ship being loaded at the time.
The other thing is that train sometimes might be late so you want to stockpile the call in advance the
companies that are sending the coal using these trains.
They want to bring the coal in advance if they can so in case the train is late they're not paying extra
cash because these companies have huge contracts with the ships and every time every minute of the ship's
time that is standing there and it's delayed is literally costing hundreds of thousands of dollars for
a minute.
And the other thing is that there are different types of coal so you cannot you can sometimes you can
just send the coal you have to mix.
It has to be a blend of two three or many different types of coal.
And that blending happens at the jetty.
But you need to have that different those different types of coal so they're stockpiled in their own
piles with different types of coal stockpiled separately and then when the time comes to mix them they're
mixed at the jetty.
So that is another reason why it is so public.
Also as you can see inevitably going to have to have a stockyard and you're going to have to stockpile
cold.
So there's a stockyard and this is what the stockyard looks like over here and we'll get back to this
image just down the track in a couple of slides.
This here what we can see is the conveyor belt going to the jetty with the ships are and this is an
actual photo so as you can see it's an incredibly long conveyor belt.
And then over here there's more machines that mix the coal so there's machines here as you can see.
These machines they stock pile the coal and there's more machines here that mix the coal and make sure
that the coal consistency is correct.
It's what the client ordered and the KLISE can be huge companies that can be countries that can be governments
.
And once that coal is correct it's loaded onto the ships and then it's sent off.
OK I hope you get a side of this like I can feel your excitement through through the computer and I
hope you can feel mine because this is going to be an incredible engagement.
All right so where are we up to.
Once again this is the photo and you can see the ships lined up over there waiting.
So this is this place this coal terminal.
It operates 24/7.
It doesn't stop there is no public holidays no Christmas no anything.
It works 24/7 365 days a year.
Night day no breaks nothing.
It has to keep pumping because the trains are coming.
The ships are waiting.
The coal needs to be sent off and there are there is so much coal it costs lots of money every minute
that this place doesn't work.
It's literally millions of dollars of revenue that are being lost.
Off the bottom line of the company as you can imagine this is a very very kind of stressful work and
I really do respect the management because they have to run this whole operation and manage both trains
and ships and stockyards and machines is just an incredible job that they're doing.
So hats off to them.
And what does that mean for us.
Well that is slowly leading us into our engagement.
This place works 24/7.
So by the way that's the ship's wedding this is an out and other actual photo.
They're waiting to get loaded.
These ships are massive.
They can carry between anywhere between 20000 tons and 200000 tons of dead weight and dead weight includes
all the cargo all the ballast all the people everything that's on the ship.
And that's that's huge.
So those ships are loaded then they're sent off.
Now this place as we said operates 24 7 and they process eighty five million tons of coal per year.
It doesn't probably sound like anything but that is that is an incredible amount of coal that is going
through here.
Just imagine one train is only about seven thousand tons.
That's.
And the ship maximum maximum capacity of a ship is about 200000 tons.
So this place is producing 85 million tons of coal per year.
It's incredible anyway.
So moving on.
That's what we're going to be talking about is machines that work at the coal terminal.
We're going to be analyzing machines and specifically we're going to be talking about their maintenance
.
And there are three types of machines.
There's this machine that you see here is called the Stacher.
It stacks up the coal into these Perelman's of coal.
Then this machine that you see here is every.
It uses its buckets Wilderspin to reclaim the coal and send it back off onto the conveyor when that
coal is required and then this machine is a Stacher reclaim or it can do both.
You can see the buckets so it can reclaim but at the moment you can see it's doing is it's stacking
the coal into a pyramid.
So it's kind of a two way machine.
And here you can see how the coal is sent into the machine.
It's sent through this conveyor belt.
Or that's the same way it goes out when it's being reclaimed.
And this is what the place looks like at night.
So as you can imagine these machines are working 24/7.
The whole place lights up like a Christmas tree.
Everybody keeps working through the night.
And this is how the machine is working.
Like a real time.
Look at them go it's just insane how much power there is in there.
And as you can imagine these machines require maintenance.
They require service.
But how are you going to service them when this whole place so they can stop they have to keep working
24/7 because of the.
Every every minute of downtime is millions of dollars you can't just stop them to assess whether they
require service where they require maintenance where they need an oil change oil or whatever they might
need.
So how are we going to go about that.
We're going to use analytics to find out whether my machine requires maintenance.
And what you see here is the older machines that are present in this terminal.
So you've got the Arel is a Clamer there's to reclaim is already here.
Then you've got the stackers these are the three SE1 asked for and then you've got the rest which are
Stackridge claimers So the combined machines as Sarwan as are two or three a four a five and six.
Isn't that exciting.
We're going to be using data to assess the performance of machines that are so complex.
We don't know anything about our engineers.
We never built these machines we never been inside these machines and yet we will be able to tell using
data whether they require maintenance or not and that by is on its own is incredible.
That is the power of data mining.
And I look forward to seeing on the first tutorial Let's get this thing started and until then have
happy analyzing